DSC 106 Project 3 Write-up
Names: Ethan Deng, Jason Gu, Wenbin Jiang


	In this project, we are showcasing the spread of COVID-19 in the world from January 22, 2020, to August 27, 2020, (7 months) on a visualization of the map.
This is the dataset we are using for COVID-19: https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/imdevskp/corona-virus-report?resource=download
The data we are interested in includes the number of Cases, Deaths, and Recovered, as well as where they happened (Country) and when they happened (Date).

And here is where we got the geo.json for the map, which gives us all the countries in the world:
https://geojson-maps.ash.ms

We decided to make a map visualization because we thought it was an interesting and effective way to show how COVID-19 spread throughout the world. In this map, each country starts dark green, representing that there are little to no COVID cases in that country. We included a time slider at the top of the web page that the user can interact with to see how the number of cases changes worldwide over time. This is shown by the color of the country, as the color changes from dark green to yellow to orange to red to dark red as the number of cases increases in that country increases. We chose this color pattern because red signifies that there is greater danger and captures more attention from the user that there are more COVID cases in that country. We chose to make the background color of the website a blue color to signify the ocean and make it more pleasing to look at as opposed to a plain white background. We also added light green borders around each country to make the countries more easily distinguishable from one another.

Moreover, we added a tooltip where you can see more information about the number of cases, deaths, and recovered people in that country. All the user has to do is hover over the respective country to see more information, and this information updates as the time slider is moved.

	
	
Now to talk about the development process, Ethan was the one who started the project and came up with the idea to work with COVID data on the world map. So Ethan worked on the project to get the ball rolling and set up the website to display a title, a map, a time slider to change the date, and countries that responded to the number of cases that country had after the data was loaded in. This process took about 5-7 hours of trial and error, as Ethan was having trouble mostly with having the countries change color based on the number of cases. Soon after, Jason and Wenbin hopped on the project by git pulling from Ethan’s repository and helped fix some problems Ethan was having when loading the map in, as well as adding stuff. For instance, Ethan was having trouble having the map stay centered when the size of the browser window was changed, but Wenbin was able to fix that for us. Wenbin spent about an hour trying to fix up the centering of the map. Wenbin also worked on the tooltips to display the information on cases, deaths, and recovered when a user hovers their mouse over each country. Jason changed the font and added borders to each country to make them distinguishable from one another. Jason also worked on making buttons for the time slider where the slider would move forward in time at a constant rate, and the speed could be changed as well.
